[ACR-1579] Add machine-learning-training docs (#1)
zhoonit/tizen-docs: docs/application/native/guides/machine-learning/machine-learning-training.md

# Machine Learning Training

<!-- Overview -->

Machine Learning Training allows to construct, control and train a machine learning model in Tizen devices.
Please note that, this feature remains experimental for Tizen 6.0 and is not full-fledged for every needs.

## Prerequisites

To enable your application to use the machine learning training functionality:

1. To use the functions and data types of the Machine Learning Inference API, include the `<nntrainer.h>` header file in your application:

   ```c
   #include <nntrainer.h>
   ```

2. To use the Machine Learning Training API, include the following features in your `tizen-manifest.xml` file:

   ```xml
   <feature name="http://tizen.org/feature/machine_learning">true</feature>
   <feature name="http://tizen.org/feature/machine_learning.training">true</feature>
   ```

> 

Reviewer: add a statement about priveleges (if saving file outside the app, then apply privilege)?

Author: Done

# Machine Learning Training

> Machine Learning Training allows to construct, control and train a machine learning model in Tizen devices.

Reviewer: Machine Learning Training API/system/functionality?

Author: How about feature?

Reviewer: this will get mixed with Tizen features ().
Further, you use API at bottom. Make sure whatever you choose works with it.

Reviewer: Make it API, consistent wtih inference.

Author: Done

> Machine Learning Training allows to construct, control and train a machine learning model in Tizen devices.

Reviewer 2: I think we need to give little bit more details (briefly) about Machine Learning Training.
Something like..

Machine Learning Training API allows you to train your model in Tizen Devices.

The main features of the Machine Learning Training API include:

Construct deep neural network Easily
You can construct DNN model by Configuration File or writing code through Machine Learning Training API.
....
Train with your own data
Machine Learning API also allows you to train the model with your own data as a File I/O and defining data generator code.
....
Evaluate the model during train
You can validate and test your model during train process easily by define the data set.
...

Author: Updated

Please note that:

> * This feature remains experimental for Tizen 6.0 and is not full-fledged yet for every needs.

Reviewer: Lets not add experimental. ACR reviewers were against it.
`This API is still undergoing heavy changes, and can be updated.`

Author: Done

> * Every example code is not fully handling error for brevity. Error should be handled more extensively then example code written here.

Reviewer: not handling all the errors for brevity

Reviewer: then -> compared to the

Author: Done

## Prerequisites

> To enable your application to use the machine learning training functionality:

Reviewer: follow as per https://github.com/zhoonit/tizen-docs/pull/1/files#r478799057

Author: Did you mean this? 
```suggestion
To enable your application to use the machine learning training functionality, follow as per:
```

Reviewer: I mean machine learning training `functionality` -> as per decided from https://github.com/zhoonit/tizen-docs/pull/1/files#r478799057

Author: Changed to API

> 1. To use the functions and data types of the Machine Learning Inference API, include the `<nntrainer.h>` header file in your application:

Reviewer: Inference -> Training

Author: Done

> 1. To use the functions and data types of the Machine Learning Inference API, include the `<nntrainer.h>` header file in your application:

Reviewer: API -> as per  https://github.com/zhoonit/tizen-docs/pull/1/files#r478799057

> 1. To use the functions and data types of the Machine Learning Inference API, include the `<nntrainer.h>` header file in your application:

Reviewer: Simply `include the `<nntrainer.h>` header file in your application:`. The first part of the sentence is already at line or modify line 12 to have it,.

Author: Done

   ```c
   #include <nntrainer.h>
   ```

> 2. To use the Machine Learning Training API, include the following features in your `tizen-manifest.xml` file:

Reviewer: ditto

Author: Done

   ```xml
   <feature name="http://tizen.org/feature/machine_learning">true</feature>
   <feature name="http://tizen.org/feature/machine_learning.training">true</feature>
   ```

> 3. If you want to save/load model files from outside, the application has to request permission by adding following privileges to the `tizen-manifest.xml` file:

Reviewer: outside `of the applicaiton's own resources`

Author: Done

  ```xml
  <privileges>
    <!-- For accessing media storage -->
    <privilege>http://tizen.org/privilege/mediastorage</privilege>
    <!-- For accessing external storage -->
    <privilege>http://tizen.org/privilege/externalstorage</privilege>
  </privileges>
  ```

## Building Blocks

> There are 4 major components you need to get familiar with. With those components, you can prepare a model and run.

Reviewer: run?? train etc?

Author: Changed to 
```suggestion
There are 4 major components you need to get familiar with. With those components, you can train a model.
```

### Model

![model](./media/model.png)

Model is a wrapper component that has topology of layers, optimizers, datasets.

> Model conducts training and update parameters that can later be used for inference.

Reviewer: Model performs training and saves the updated parameters ....

Author: Done

Please note only sequential topology is supported for the time being.

```c
// Create model
ml_train_model_h model;
ml_train_model_construct(&model);

> /* Configure models(omitted for brevity) */

Reviewer: models -> model

Reviewer: omitted for brevity -> detailed in later sections

Author: Done

// Compile model, this freezes model and cannot modify model afterwards.
ml_train_model_compile(model, "loss=cross", "batch_size=16", NULL);
// run model
ml_train_model_run(model, "epochs=2", "save_path=model.bin", NULL);

// destroy after use
ml_train_model_destroy(model);
```

### Layer

Layer is a component that does actual computation while managing internal trainable parameters.

```
/***************************************

>  * Data(x)  -> Layer(F) -> Data(F(X))  *

Reviewer 2: I think we don't need this. I think we need to give info about what kind of layer we can provide.

Author: Deleted

 * Data(dx) <-    ...   <- Data(dF(X)) *
 ***************************************/
```

```c
// Create layer
ml_train_layer_h layer;
ml_train_layer_create(&layer, ML_TRAIN_LAYER_TYPE_FC);

// configure layer
ml_train_set_property(layer, "unit=10", "activation=softmax", "bias_initializer=zeros", NULL);

// after add layer to model,
// you do not need to destroy layer since ownership is transferred to the model.
ml_train_model_add_layer(model, layer);
```

### Optimizer

Optimizer determines how to update model parameters according to loss from prediction.

> Currently, Stochastic gradient descent optimizer and Adam optimizer are supported.

Reviewer: Stochastic Gradient Descent

Reviewer: Currently -> Both

Author: Done

```c
// Create optimizer
ml_train_optimizer_h optimizer;
ml_train_optimizer_create(&optimizer, ML_TRAIN_OPTIMIZER_TYPE_SGD);

// configure optimizer
ml_train_optimizer_set_property(optimizer, "learning_rate=0.001", NULL);

// after configuring optimizer to model
// you do not need to destroy optimizer since ownership is transferred to the model.
ml_train_model_set_optimizer(model, optimizer);
```

### Dataset

Dataset is in charge of feeding data into the model.
It can either be created from callback function or created from a file.
Detail will be discussed in [upcoming](#prepare-model) section.

```c
// Create dataset
ml_train_dataset_h dataset;
ml_train_dataset_create_with_generator(&dataset, generator_train_cb, generator_valid_cb, generator_test_cb);

// configure dataset
ml_train_dataset_set_property(dataset, "buffer_size=100", NULL);

// after set dataset to model,
// you do not need to destroy dataset since ownership is transferred to the model.
ml_train_model_set_dataset(model, dataset);
```

## Construct Model

> To run the model, you need to construct model. Model can be constructed with `ml_train_model_construct`.

Reviewer: you need to construct -> a model first needs to be construct.
Do similar across the content of the file.

> To run the model, you need to construct model. Model can be constructed with `ml_train_model_construct`.

Reviewer: run the model -> what does run means - inference or train?

Author: Done

> If you have file that describe model, the file can be used to construct initially with `ml_train_model_construct_with_file`.

Reviewer: describe -> describes

Author: Done

Even if you constructed model from a file, you can switch/modify/add each component with set of given apis until you compile with `ml_train_model_compile`.

### Construct Model from the Description File

> As of now, only `*.ini` is supported to construct model from a file.

Reviewer: As of now, only INI formatted files `*.ini` are supported

Author: Done

#### Create Model from ini Format

There are special sections refering to `model` and `dataset` respectively [Model] and [Dataset]

> Each ini section maps to a `layer`. Keys and values from each section sets property.

Reviewer: Rest of the ini sections map to `layer`.

Reviewer: Also add each layer name to unique.

Author: Done

Invalid Property will be ignored safely, invalid values will cause error. All keys and values are case-insensitive

For example,

```ini
[Model] # Special section that describes model property

> Type = NeuralNetwork	# Model Type : only NeuralNetwork is supported as of now

Reviewer: such information `only NeuralNetwork is supported as of now` must not be given here. But rather in docs of the project.

Optimizer = adam 	# Optimizer : sgd (stochastic gradient decent),
 	    		#             adam (Adaptive Moment Estimation)
#### optimizer related properties
Learning_rate = 0.0001 	# Learning Rate for the optimizer
Decay_rate = 0.96	# for the decay_rate for the decayed learning rate
Decay_steps = 1000       # decay step for the exponential decayed learning rate
beta1 = 0.9 		# beta 1 for adam
beta2 = 0.9999	# beta 2 for adam
epsilon = 1e-7	# epsilon for adam

#### Model compile related properties
batch_size = 9
loss = cross  		# Cost(loss) function : mse (mean squared error)
                        #                       cross (cross entropy)

####  Model run related properties
Epochs = 20 		# Epochs
save_path = "model.bin"  	# model path to save / read parameters

[DataSet] # Special section that describes dataset.
BufferSize=9
TrainData="trainingSet.dat"
ValidData="validationSet.dat"
LabelData="label.dat"

# Layer Sections, each section name refers to name of the layer
[inputlayer]
Type = input
Input_Shape = 1:1:62720	# Input Layer Dimension channel:height:width
Normalization = true

[outputlayer]
Type = fully_connected
Unit = 2		# Output Layer Dimension ( = Weight Width )

> bias_initializer = zeros

Reviewer: lets specify weight initializer as well for completeness

Activation = sigmoid 	# activation : sigmoid, softmax
Weight_Decay = l2norm
weight_Decay_Lambda = 0.005
```

There are some restriction that must be kept:

 * Model file must have `[Model]` section that describe model property

>  * Model file must have at lease one layer.

Reviewer: at least
